Blog: Ways PostHog can help you build better products (#3751)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/using-posting.md

---
date: 2022-07-18
title: 20+ ways PostHog can help you build better products
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
featuredImage: ../images/blog/product-people.png
featuredImageType: full
author: ["andy-vandervell"]
categories: ["Guides", "Product analytics"]
---

PostHog is a growing platform.

We used to call ourselves a product analytics platform, but product analytics is just one feature [among many](/product) these days.

And that got us wondering... just how many useful things can you do with PostHog?

The answer? A lot – and this list is just a snapshot of the possibilities.

> Here's the TL;DR:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

1. [Track errors as events](#10-track-errors-as-events) 
1. [Watch users interact with your acquisition funnel](#11-watch-users-interact-with-your-acquisition-funnel) 
1. [Analyze retrospective data](#12-analyze-retrospective-data) 
1. [Spend a week watching people using your product](#13-spend-a-week-watching-people-using-your-product)
1. [Build your own app](#14-build-your-own-app) 
1. [Subscribe to an insight or dashboard](#15-subscribe-to-an-insight-or-dashboard) 
1. [Capture where people first heard about you](#16-capture-where-people-first-heard-about-you) 
1. [Measure how long it takes users to complete a series of actions](#17-measure-how-long-it-takes-users-to-complete-a-series-of-actions) 
1. [Organize your custom events in Notion](#18-organize-your-custom-events-in-notion)
1. [Collect location data while respecting user privacy](#19-collect-location-data-while-respecting-user-privacy) 
1. [Connect PagerDuty and PostHog to get threshold alerts](#20-connect-pagerduty-and-posthog-to-get-threshold-alerts) 
1. [Track support tickets by connecting Zendesk](#21-track-support-tickets-by-connecting-zendesk) 

> > Got an idea to add to this article? Share it on the [PostHog website repo](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/issues).

Reviewer: Prob more direct to ask users to just submit a PR to update the article. Rather than sending them to the issues section, you could send them to the file (e.g. https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/blob/master/contents/blog/15-million-series-b.md) and let them make edits therre.

Author: I'm just going to take this out, tbh

> > Got an idea to add to this article? Share it on the [PostHog website repo](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/issues).

Author: ```suggestion
```

What metrics you choose will depend on the business and it's fine to have more than one metric for each category. What's vital, however, is that they're easy to understand, actionable and comparable.

Read our guide to [getting started with the AARRR framework](/tutorials/aarrr-framework) and [B2B product metrics](/blog/b2b-saas-product-metrics) guides for more.

## 3. Discover who your power users are

![discovering power users](../images/blog/things-to-do-in-posthog/cohorts.png)

You can learn a huge amount by discovering who your most active users are, and what they're doing.

What are the features they use the most? How often do they perform specific tasks? What job title or role do these people have in their company? 

These are the kinds of insights that inform your marketing efforts, your product roadmap, and help you find product market fit.

For this you'll want to employ our powerful Cohorts tool by using the "completed event regularly" or "completed an event multiple times" conditions. 

An e-commerce platform might ask for "users who bought an item in 5 out of the last 7 weeks" – we track many things, including users who view dashboards frequently.

> ## 4. Gather user feedback

Author: I'll add some extra context

![pineapple on pizza](../images/blog/things-to-do-in-posthog/pinepapple.png)

> You can [use PostHog to gather feedback on your product](/tutorials/survey), website, or conduct user polls.
> 
> On our website, every docs page has a question asking whether the page was useful – we use this to help identify pages that need improvement. We also ask anyone who gets a 404 on our website whether pineapple belongs on pizza. We use this to report people to the pizza police. 

Author: ```suggestion
Because PostHog is all about tracking events, it's easy to create your own simple feedback interfaces and analyse the results in PostHog.

On our website, every docs page has a question asking whether the page was useful – we use this to help identify pages that need improvement. We also ask anyone who gets a 404 on our website whether pineapple belongs on pizza. We use this to report people to the pizza police. 

Read our [running surveys with no backend](/tutorials/survey) tutorial to learn how.
```

- **Completed a sequence of events:** Find users using your product in a very specific way. For example, "Give me users who added something to their cart and then entered a promo code within a day".

- **Do not have the property:** Find more specific sets of users. For example, "Give me users outside of Europe".

- **Completed an event for the first time:** Find the newest users of a feature. For example, "Give me users who bought an item for the first time in the last 7 days".

- **Completed an event regularly:** Find your power users. For example, "Give me users who bought an item in 5 out of the last 7 weeks".

Try experimenting with any of the above, while also using AND/OR operators, to create new and useful insights.

## 6. Validate a product change using experiments

![PostHog experiments](../images/blog/things-to-do-in-posthog/experiments-1.png)

Experimentation is a fundamental tool every engineer and product manager needs. While you can roll out changes and observe their impact after the fact, it's impossible to verify whether small shifts in your metrics are down to your changes or some other unknown variable.

> PostHog's Experimentation suite is built atop our Feature Flag functionality, allowing you to run straight A/B tests and multivariate tests. You can set a minimum acceptable improvement for the test, and PostHog will recommend a sample size and test duration based on your parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PostHog's Experimentation suite is built atop our Feature Flag functionality, enabling you to run straight A/B tests and multivariate tests. You can set a minimum acceptable improvement for the test, and PostHog will recommend a sample size and test duration based on your parameters.
```

It's also great for marketing and website teams. For example, we know visitors complete a specific user journey on our website are 5.0x more likely to perform the 'clicked calculate scale price' event, 8x more likely to have used docs search, and 2.9x more likely to have arrived via Google.

## 10. Track errors as events

You can track any sort of event in PostHog, including failures or other sorts of errors. All you need to do is put an [action](https://posthog.com/docs/user-guides/actions) or [event](https://posthog.com/docs/user-guides/events) next to the error, find some other unique identifier you can use - such as views of a /404 page – or use our [Sentry Connector](/apps/sentry-connector) to track errors as events.  

Tracking errors can be enormously useful for deciding where to invest engineering time, or when to prioritize areas of your product. [Phantom](https://posthog.com/customers/phantom), for example, used this to prioritize updates to their infrastructure by tracking failure rates for payments across their platform.

## 11. Watch users interact with your acquisition funnel

![funnel users](../images/blog/things-to-do-in-posthog/converted-users.png)

> One of the beauties of having session recording and product analytics in one tool is the seamless way you can go from reviewing a funnel insight to watching exactly what those same users are doing. 

Author: ```suggestion
Having session recording and product analytics in one tool means you can go from reviewing a funnel insight to watching exactly what those same users are doing, seamlessly. 
```

> “Retrospective data and event autocapture have been especially useful. We’ve had occasions where we’ve speculated something but haven’t been capturing the data to prove it, so we define an event and then see the retroactive data for it immediately. Previously we’d have to wait months to get usable data like that in Google Analytics or other tools.”

## 13. Spend a week watching people using your product

![recording filters posthog](../images/blog/things-to-do-in-posthog/session-recording.png)

Seriously, sometimes it's just useful to spend a whole load of time watching people using your product. 

In the Recordings page in PostHog, you can filter all recordings based on cohorts you've already created, or specific events you're interested in. You can also select a date range and a minimum/maximum recording duration. 

Once setup, you're ready to dive in and discover all the odd things users do that you never anticipated, the problems they encounter, and the workarounds they employ.

![twitter quote](../images/blog/things-to-do-in-posthog/twitter-quote.png)

This guy gets it.

## 14. Build your own app

> PostHog is an open source platform and one of the key benefits is you don't have to wait for us to build a specific integration you need. You can build yourself. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PostHog is an open source platform and one of the key benefits is you don't have to wait for us to build a specific integration you need. You can build it yourself. 
```

> The PostHog App Store has numerous examples of useful apps built by our community, such as [URL Normalizer](/apps/url-normalizer) (thanks to Mark Bennett), the [Property Filter](/apps/property-filter) app (thanks to Lukas Kahwe Smith and Christian), and the [User Agent Populator](/apps/user-agent-populator) (thanks to Weyert).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[The PostHog App Store](/apps) has numerous examples of useful apps built by our community, such as [URL Normalizer](/apps/url-normalizer) (thanks to Mark Bennett), the [Property Filter](/apps/property-filter) app (thanks to Lukas Kahwe Smith and Christian), and the [User Agent Populator](/apps/user-agent-populator) (thanks to Weyert).
```
